feat: add article about cloudfront for web applications (#292)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform-part-1.md

---
layout: post

> title: "How AWS Cloudfront is helping us deliver our Web streaming platform ? - Part 1"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "How AWS Cloudfront is helping us deliver our Web streaming platform? - Part 1"
```

Cloudfront is the CDN service of AWS.
By making available a large number of POPs around the world, it allows us to provide a response to a user as close as possible to their location.
This allows us to significantly reduce the time to first byte of our responses.
Different [price classes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/PriceClass.html) allow you to choose the global "zone" in which your application should be available in order to achieve savings.

![Worldmap of AWS cloudfront edges](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/edges.png)

Being in Lyon (France), we sometimes get answers from the POP (Point Of Presence) of Milan (Italia).
Indeed, Milan is relatively much closer than Paris.

Note that it is very easy to know which Cloudfront POP answered you (default setting).
Each POP is identified by a three letter code that corresponds to the code of the nearest international airport (here: CDG corresponds to Paris Charles de Gaulle airport).

```
x-amz-cf-pop: CDG50-C1
```

Delivering content as close to the user as possible is great, it theoretically reduces waiting time but it does not solve the problem of heavy load.

> The best solution for load problems is the cache.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say "the" cache. 
Maybe "… is caching" ?

> You put 1 second of cache-control, and you already won!
>
> [Y. Verry, our Head of Infrastructure and Ops](https://twitter.com/yverry)

> Cloudfront service makes it easy to cache responses at the server edge.

Reviewer: Does "the server edge" (= "le bord du serveur") mean what you wanted to say?
Maybe "the edge server" (= "le serveur du bord")? Or even "at edge servers" (= "les serveurs des bords") ?

Reviewer 2: this part is not present in the definition of a CDN explained above: the cache, whereas it is however an essential notion of a CDN.
Reading this sentence, I have the impression that Cloudfront has "innovated" by adding caching when it is the main feature expected from a CDN.
Did I misunderstand or is this the meaning you want from your sentence?

If we take the example of sports broadcasting, users arrive in large numbers in a very short period of time.

> Caching (telling Cloudfront to cache a web page) takes a lot of the load off our Node servers because they are not called.

Reviewer 2: maybe you can add a Hit/Miss graph here ?

> Caching objects in Cloudfront is also about improving response times.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused: you already talked about _time to first byte_ earlier.
The two are linked, why did you choose to separate them?

No need to wait for our servers, the user receives the cached object directly.
Cloudfront even takes advantage of this to apply more powerful compression algorithms like Brotli on these cached objects.
These compressions, performed directly by the CDN, allow you to drastically reduce the size of your objects on the network.

> Cloudfront also allows you to do "Edge computing": run code directly in Amazon edges and POPs instead of doing it in our applications.

Reviewer 2: I identify several subsections in this paragraph, which would be relevant to separate into separate paragraphs, WYT?

Lambda at edge (on regional edges servers), Cloudfront function (function that runs on POP servers)), Web Application Firewall, here are some very cool features that will allow you to do usual manipulations on your requests/responses.

> Finally, by using regional Edge, hundreds of end server edges do not contact your origin (your application) when the cache is invalidated or exceeded.

Reviewer: "end server edges" == POP ?

there are many places you are using "edge", and both REC and POP are edges. But in some cases, using REC or POP instead of "edge" might be more clear. Like here ;-)

You can even activate the [Origin Shield](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/origin-shield.html) feature that allows you to further limit the load on your origins.

> [![regional edge usage with Cloudfront](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/regional.png)](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/regional.png)

Reviewer: Font size of the schema is much too small, I think. (same for other schemas, but this one is even smaller)

Author: Yes but user can zoom in or event open it in a dedicate tab,, image is a link

> Good per-level cache management even allowed us to completely invalidate the cache of a Cloudfront distribution a few minutes before the start of an event without generating huge traffic on our servers.

Reviewer: This is scary :-D
Not something I would ever advise ^^

---

> And that's it for this first article, in the next part (and normally the last one) you will be able to find some patterns and examples of how to use Cloudfront to distribute a high traffic web site.

Reviewer: Instead of speaking of "vous trouverez des exemples de comment utiliser CF sur un site à fort trafic", formulating this around our XP might be more interesting: "vous découvrirez comment nous avons mis certains patterns en application sur nos sites…" ?

description: "What is a CDN, how is it useful for us? Feedback on the use of the AWS Cloudfront service for the deployment of high traffic web applications. Configuration example, best practices."
author:
    name: Antoine Caron
avatar:
email:
twitter: Slashgear_
github: Slashgear
category:
tags: [cloudfront, aws, cdn, node.js, react, javascript, frontend]
comments: true
image:
  feature: posts/2022-01-03-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/hero.jpeg
language: en
---

- [Part 1 - What is a CDN, how is it useful for us?](/cloudfront-web-streaming-platform-part-1/)
- [Part 2 - How do we use a CDN to improve our service? Some examples and patterns (in construction 🚧)](/)

## A bit of context

The web is a major platform for the distribution of our customers' content at Bedrock.
Millions of users connect every year to watch their live, replay or directly the series and movies of their choice.
The broadcasting of sports events such as the Euro 2020 soccer tournament represents a real technical challenge when it comes to maintaining the stability and performance of such a platform.

The web application works today in SSR (Server Side Rendering) mode.

> This means that in production today we have NodeJS Express servers running in production to return pre-rendered HTML pages on the server side.

Reviewer: Maybe the two sentences could become one?
```
The web application works in SSR (Server Side Rendering) mode: we have NodeJS Express servers returning pre-rendered HTML pages.
```

We made [this choice several years ago](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/spa-mode-isomorphism-js/), for two reasons: SEO and to improve the first display time on slow devices.
In addition to the HTML pages, the web platform is also a huge collection of assets that allow the website to function: Javascript bundles, CSS, images, manifests.

> [![Schema of our cloudfront origin architecture simplified](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/web-archi.png)](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/web-archi.png)

Reviewer 3: I've got the impression that we present that far too soon.
Should it be the end of the article to show how we use cloudfront to avoid hitting our node for static asset delivery for exemple ? than in the beggining before having cdn explained ?

Reviewer: +1

Author: I have drop the schema which will come back in the next part of the article

Today our customers have users distributed over a large part of the globe.

> **To answer these problems, the use of a CDN seemed necessary to us.**

Reviewer: Are these "problems"? Or, as French would say, "problématiques"?
Not sure what the right English word is… "concerns"?

## What is a CDN then ?

> CDN for Content Delevery Network is a service allowing the delivery of content to users across the internet (here our HTML pages and assets).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CDN for Content Delivery Network is a service allowing the delivery of content to users across the internet (here our HTML pages and assets).
```

> CDN for Content Delivery Network is a service allowing the delivery of content to users across the internet (here our HTML pages and assets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDN for Content Delivery Network is a service delivering content to users across the internet (here our HTML pages and assets).
```

Wherever the user is in the world.
To all users, even if they are very numerous.

Cloudfront is the CDN service of AWS.

> By making available a large number of Pops around the world, it allows us to provide a response to a user as close as possible to their location.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By making available a large number of POPs around the world, it allows us to provide a response to a user as close as possible to their location.
```

> By making available a large number of POPs around the world, it allows us to provide a response to a user as close as possible to their location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a large number of POPs around the world, it helps us provide a response to each user as close as possible to their location.
```

This allows us to significantly reduce the time to first byte of our responses.

> Different [price classes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/PriceClass.html) allow you to choose the global "zone" in which your application should be available in order to achieve savings.

Reviewer: The previous sentence uses "us" while this one uses "you". I kinda see why you did that, but it's a bit surprising when reading…

Reviewer: "zone" -> "area" ?

![Worldmap of AWS cloudfront edges](/images/posts/2022-01-31-cloudfront-web-streaming-platform/edges.png)

> Being in Lyon, we sometimes get answers from the Pop de Milan.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Being in Lyon (France), we sometimes get answers from the POP (Point Of Presence) of Milan (Italia).
```

Indeed, Milan is relatively much closer than Paris.

> Note that it is very easy to know which cloudfront pop answered you (default setting).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that it is very easy to know which Cloudfront POP answered you (default setting).
```

> Each pop is identified by a three letter code that corresponds to the code of the nearest international airport (here: CDG corresponds to Paris Charles de Gaulle airport).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each POP is identified by a three letter code that corresponds to the code of the nearest international airport (here: CDG corresponds to Paris Charles de Gaulle airport).
```

```
x-amz-cf-pop: CDG50-C1
```

Delivering content as close to the user as possible is great, it theoretically reduces waiting time but it does not solve the problem of heavy load.

The best solution for load problems is the cache.

> You put 1 second of cache-control, and you already won!
>
> [Y. Verry, our Head of Infrastructure and Ops](https://twitter.com/yverry)

Cloudfront service makes it easy to cache responses at the server edge.
If we take the example of sports broadcasting, users arrive in large numbers in a very short period of time.

> Caching (telling Cloudfront to cache a web page) takes a lot of the load off our node servers because they are not called.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Caching (telling Cloudfront to cache a web page) takes a lot of the load off our Node servers because they are not called.
```

Caching objects in Cloudfront is also about improving response times.
No need to wait for our servers, the user receives the cached object directly.
Cloudfront even takes advantage of this to apply more powerful compression algorithms like Brotli on these cached objects.
These compressions, performed directly by the CDN, allow you to drastically reduce the size of your objects on the network.

> Cloudfront also allows you to do "Edge computing": run code directly in Amazon edges and pops instead of doing it in our applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cloudfront also allows you to do "Edge computing": run code directly in Amazon edges and POPs instead of doing it in our applications.
```

> Lambda at edge (on regional edges servers), Cloudfront function (function that runs on pop servers)), Web Application Firewall, here are some very cool features that will allow you to do usual manipulations on your requests/responses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lambda at edge (on regional edges servers), Cloudfront function (function that runs on POP servers)), Web Application Firewall, here are some very cool features that will allow you to do usual manipulations on your requests/responses.
```
